Updated the documentation for Go SDK (#712)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/go/verifying-sessions.mdx

description: Learn how to verify a session with Clerk in your Go application.
---

# Verifying a Clerk session in Go

> Go makes it really easy to create a simple HTTP server, and Clerk makes it simple to authenticate any request. The following examples show how to verify a session and retrieve the corresponding user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go enables you to create a simple HTTP server, and Clerk enables you to authenticate any request. The following examples show how to verify a session and retrieve the corresponding user.
```

Author: You're 100% right. Updated!

> ## Using middleware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use middleware
```

> The library provides two functions that can be used for adding authentication with Clerk to HTTP handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library provides two functions for adding authentication to HTTP handlers with Clerk.
```

Author: Updated.

> Both middleware functions support header based authentication with a bearer token. The token is parsed, verified and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both middleware functions support header based authentication with a bearer token. The token is parsed, verified, and
```

Author: Done.

> its claims are extracted as [SessionClaims](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaims).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its claims will be extracted as [SessionClaims](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaims).
```

Author: Done.

The claims will then be made available in the `http.Request.Context` for the next handler in the chain. The library

> provides a helper for accessing the claims from the context, [SessionClaimsFromContext](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaimsFromContext).

Author: Updated.

> The two middleware functions are [WithHeaderAuthorization](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#WithHeaderAuthorization)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also two middleware helpers:
- [WithHeaderAuthorization](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#WithHeaderAuthorization)
```

Author: Switched to a list.

> and [RequireHeaderAuthorization](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#RequireHeaderAuthorization).

Author: Done.

> Their difference is that the `RequireHeaderAuthorization` calls `WithHeaderAuthorization` under the hood, but responds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Unnecessary due to above change

Author: :+1: Yup, removed.

> with HTTP 403 Forbidden if it fails to detect valid session claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Unnecessary due to above change

> Your Clerk secret key is required. If you are signed into your Clerk Dashboard, your secret key should become visible by clicking on the eye icon. Otherwise, you can retrieve your Clerk secret key from the Clerk Dashboard on the **[API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys)** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">

Your Clerk secret key is required. If you are signed into your Clerk Dashboard, your secret key should become visible by selecting the eye icon below. Otherwise, you can retrieve your Clerk secret key from the Clerk Dashboard on the **[API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys)** page.

</Callout>
```

Author: Done!

  "net/http"

  "github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2"
  clerkhttp "github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http"
)

func main() {
  clerk.SetKey(`{{secret}}`)

  mux := http.NewServeMux()
  mux.HandleFunc("/", publicRoute)
  protectedHandler := http.HandlerFunc(protectedRoute)
  mux.Handle(
    "/protected",
    clerkhttp.WithHeaderAuthorization()(protectedHandler),
  )

  http.ListenAndServe(":3000", mux)
}

func publicRoute(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  w.Write([]byte(`{"access": "public"}`))
}

func protectedRoute(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  claims, ok := clerk.SessionClaimsFromContext(r.Context())
  if !ok {
    w.WriteHeader(http.StatusUnauthorized)
    w.Write([]byte(`{"access": "unauthorized"}`))
    return
  }
  fmt.Fprintf(w, `{"user_id": "%s"}`, claims.Subject)
}
```
</InjectKeys>

## Custom token verification

It is recommended to use the middleware functions for verifying Clerk sessions in an HTTP context.

The middleware guarantees better performance and efficiency by making the minimum necessary requests to the Clerk Backend API.

Verifying a Clerk session requires providing a JSON Web Key. The middleware fetches the key once and caches it.

> If you decide to verify the session token on your own, please be mindful of API rate limits. It is recommended to cache your JSON Web Key and invalidate the cache only when the key gets rolled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you decide to verify the session token on your own, please be mindful of API rate limits. It is recommended to cache your JSON Web Key and invalidate the cache only when a replacement API key is generated.
```

Just wanted to make this slightly less technical, as I'd never heard of the term "Rolling" an API key until I looked it up just now. If you think that's a common enough term, you can ignore this suggestion, as I'll defer to your expertise. Just wanna make sure this content is accessible to all readers 👍

Author: Good thinking. Updated.

## Using middleware

The library provides two functions that can be used for adding authentication with Clerk to HTTP handlers.

Both middleware functions support header based authentication with a bearer token. The token is parsed, verified and
its claims are extracted as [SessionClaims](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaims).

The claims will then be made available in the `http.Request.Context` for the next handler in the chain. The library
provides a helper for accessing the claims from the context, [SessionClaimsFromContext](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaimsFromContext).

The two middleware functions are [WithHeaderAuthorization](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#WithHeaderAuthorization)
and [RequireHeaderAuthorization](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#RequireHeaderAuthorization).
Their difference is that the `RequireHeaderAuthorization` calls `WithHeaderAuthorization` under the hood, but responds
with HTTP 403 Forbidden if it fails to detect valid session claims.

> Let's see how the middleware functions can be used in action.

Reviewer 2: This feels like a filler sentence. I'd say it can be removed and the context around the code blocks below stays the same.

Author: Removed.
